# Contributing

We rely on you to test your changes sufficiently (GitHub Actions will ensure you did).

## Pull Requests

All submissions, including submissions by project members, require review. We use GitHub pull requests for this purpose. Consult [GitHub Help](https://help.github.com/articles/about-pull-requests/) for more information on using pull requests.

## Documentation

The documentation for each chart is generated with [helm-docs](https://github.com/norwoodj/helm-docs). This way we can ensure that values are consistent with the chart documentation.

We have a script on the repository which will execute the helm-docs docker container, so that you don't have to worry about downloading the binary etc. Simply execute the script:

```shell
./scripts/helm-docs.sh
```

> [!TIP]
> When creating your own `README.md.gotmpl`, don't forget to add it to your `.helmignore` file.

### Updating a chart README.md

When updating the `README.md.gotmpl` inside a chart directory you must to run the `helm-docs` script to generate the updated `README.md` file. To reiterate, you should not edit the `README.md` file manually.  It will be generated by the following command:

```shell
./scripts/helm-docs.sh
```

> [!TIP]
> If you see changes to unrelated chart `README.md` files you may have accidentally updated a `README.md.gotmpl` file in another chart's folder unintentionally or someone else failed to run this script.  Please revert those changes if you do not intend them to be a part of your pull request.

## Versioning

Each chart's version follows the [semver standard](https://semver.org/).

New charts should start at version `1.0.0`, if it's considered stable. If it isn't considered stable, it must be released as `prerelease`.

Any breaking changes to a chart (backwards incompatible) require:

* Bump of the current Major version of the chart
* State possible manual changes for this chart version in the `Upgrading` section of the chart's `README.md.gotmpl`

### Immutability

Each release for each chart must be immutable. Any change to a chart (even just documentation) requires a version bump. Trying to release the same version twice will result in an error.

### Chart Versioning

Currently we require a chart version bump for every change to a chart, including updating information for older versions. This may change in the future.

### Artifact Hub Annotations

Since we release our charts on Artifact Hub we encourage making use of the provided chart annotations for Artifact Hub.

* [https://artifacthub.io/docs/topics/annotations/helm/](https://artifacthub.io/docs/topics/annotations/helm/)

#### Changelog

We want to deliver transparent chart releases for our chart consumers. Therefore we require a changelog per new chart release.

Changes on a chart must be documented in a chart specific changelog in the `Chart.yaml` [Annotation Section](https://helm.sh/docs/topics/charts/#the-chartyaml-file).

A new `artifacthub.io/changes` needs to be written covering only the changes since the previous release.

Each change requires a new bullet point following the pattern. See more information [Artifact Hub annotations in Helm Chart.yaml file](https://artifacthub.io/docs/topics/annotations/helm/).

```yaml
- kind: {type}
  description: {description}
```

You can use the following template:

```yaml
name: sscsid-keeper
version: 1.23.4
...
annotations:
  artifacthub.io/changes: |
    - kind: added
      description: Something New was added
    - kind: changed
      description: Changed Something within this chart
    - kind: changed
      description: Changed Something else within this chart
    - kind: deprecated
      description: Something deprecated
    - kind: removed
      description: Something was removed
    - kind: fixed
      description: Something was fixed
    - kind: security
      description: Some Security Patch was included
```

## Testing

### Testing Charts

As part of the Continuous Integration system we run Helm's [Chart Testing](https://github.com/helm/chart-testing) tool.

The checks for Chart Testing are stricter than the standard Helm requirements. For example, fields normally considered optional like `maintainer` are required in the standard spec and must be valid GitHub usernames.

Linting configuration can be found in [ct-lint.yaml](./.github/configs/ct-lint.yaml)

The linting can be invoked manually with the following command:

```shell
./scripts/lint.sh
```
<!-- 
## Publishing Changes

Changes are automatically publish whenever a commit is merged to the `main` branch by the CI job (see `./.github/workflows/publish.yml`). -->